My name is Oksana. I am a prospective teacher of biology. Nature is my hobby. I know a lot about fruit and vegetables, and about their useful qualities. My friends say I am fond of diets, healthy food and healthy way of life. That's true. Food is an important part of our life; it may influence our mood and health. That's why I always eat the dishes I prepare myself and try to choose products, that are useful for my health.
I live in a hostel, so I do not have much time to prepare my breakfast in the morning, as I share the kitchen with other students. But to cook oatmeal I need 5—10 minutes. In order to make it tastier, I usually add fruits to it. I also drink a glass of apple or orange juice in the morning. At about 12 o'clock I have my lunch. It is usually an apple, a banana or a glass of juice. Sometimes I eat vegetable salad or drink tea with pies.
When I come home after classes I start preparing my dinner. It usually consists of vegetable soup for the first course, stewed fish with vegetables for the second one and stewed fruits or jelly for dessert. I do not have supper, as I do not want to overeat before going to bed. But sometimes I eat an apple or drink a glass of apple juice. I think, the food I choose is healthy and helps me to keep fit.
The problem of describing American radio and television lies in the simple fact: there's so much of it, so many different types and so much variety. At the end of the 20th century there were over 9.000 individual radio stations operating in the United States. By this time their number has grown dramatically.
There are public and educational radio stations. They are owned and operated primarily by colleges and universities, by local schools and boards of education, and by various religious groups. At the same time in the late 90-s there were close to 1,200 individual television stations. Of these TV stations, just 300 were noncommercial. Like the non-commercial radio stations, the non-commercial television stations are supported by individual donations, grants from foundations and private organizations, funds from the city, state and federal sources.
Laws prohibit any state or the federal government from owning or operating radio and television stations (stations such as Voice of America may only broadcast oversea There is no also governmental censorship or "reviewing" of programs and content. There are no governmental boards or appointed groups which control any radio or television broadcasting. However, all commercial stations are required to devote a certain percentage of the broadcasting time to "public service" announcements and advertising. These range from advertisements for the Red Cross blood drives and for dental care to programs on Alcoholics Anonymous and car safety. This broadcasting time given to public service messages is free of charge.
There is a great variety among radio and television stations. The big cities are served by large number of local radio stations. People who live in cities such as
New York, Los Angeles and Chicago have choice up to 100 AM and FM stations. The same may be told about television stations. Smaller cities have one or two local stations and larger cities ten or more. In Los Angeles, for example, there are over 18 different local television stations.
Mickey Mouse is a cartoon character who has become an icon for the Walt Disney Company. Mickey Mouse is short for Mitchell Mouse. It was created in 1928 by Walt Disney and Ub Iwerks and voiced by Walt Disney.
Walt Disney was born on December 5, 1901. Disney became one of the best-known motion picture producers in the world. He is particularly noted for being a film producer and a popular showman, as well as an innovator in animation and theme park design.

Disney is famous for his contributions in the field of entertainment during the 20th century. His first success was through the series, Oswald the Lucky Rabbit which was created by the Disney studio for Charles Mintz of Universal Studios. When Disney asked for a larger budget for his popular Oswald series, Mintz refused and Disney had to quit. Later, Disney and his brother Roy O. Disney started from scratch and co-founded Walt Disney Productions, now known as The Walt Disney Company. Today, this company has annual revenues of approximately U.S. $35 billion. This success is largely due to a number of the world’s most famous fictional characters he and his staff created including Mickey Mouse, a character for which Disney himself was the original voice.

Disney won 26 Academy Awards out of 59 nominations, including a record four in one year, giving him more awards and nominations than any other individual. He is also the namesake for Disneyland and Walt Disney World Resort theme parks in the United States, as well as the international resorts in Japan, France, and China.

Disney died of lung cancer in Burbank, California, on December 15, 1966. The following year, construction began on Walt Disney World Resort in Florida. His brother Roy Disney inaugurated The Magic Kingdom on October 1, 1971.

Source: Wikipedia
The first appearance of Mickey Mouse was in Plane Crazy on May 15, 1928. But the Walt Disney Company celebrates Mickey Mouse birth as November 18, 1928 upon the release of Steamboat Willie, because it is the first Mickey Mouse Cartoon with sound. The anthropomorphic mouse has developed along the years. He first appeared in color in 1935. The first Technicolor Disney film was Flowers and Trees from 1932. He also evolved from being simply a character in animated cartoons and comic strips to become one of the most recognizable symbols in the world.
Ramadan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar. It is the Islamic month of fasting, in which participating Muslims refrain from eating, drinking from dawn until sunset. Ramadan had been the name of the ninth month in Arabian culture long before the arrival of Islam. In the Qur’an it is said that “fasting has been written down (as obligatory) upon you, as it was upon those before you” which is a reference to the Jewish practice of fasting on Yom Kippur. Fasting is meant to teach the Muslim patience, modesty and spirituality.
Graham Green (1904—1991). One of the most significant representatives of critical realism. "The Quiet American", "The Comedians", "The Honorary Consul", "The Human Factor" and others are his well-known novels. They are closely connected not only with moral problems but also with the most critical political events in the not beds of the globe.
THE INVISIBLE JAPANESE GENTLEMEN
There were eight Japanese gentlemen having a fish dinner at Bendey's. They spoke to each other rarely in their incomprehensible tongue, but always with a courteous smile and often with a small bow. All but one of them wore glasses. Sometimes the pretty girl who sat in the window beyond gave them a passing glance, but her own problem seemed too serious for her to pay real attention to anyone in the world except herself and her companion.
She had thin blonde hair and her face was pretty and petite in a Regency way, oval like a miniature, though she had a harsh way of speaking — perhaps the accent of the school, Roedean or Cheltenham Ladie's College, which she had not long ago left. She wore a man's signet-ring on her engagement finger, and as I sat down at my table, with the Japanese gentlemen between us, she said, "So you see we could marry next week."
"Yes?"
Her companion appeared a little distraught. He refilled their glasses with Chablis and said. "Of course, but Mother..." I missed some of the conversation then, because the eldest Japanese gentleman leant across the table, with a smile and a little bow, and uttered a whole paragraph like the mutter from an aviary, while everyone bent towards him and smiled and listened, and I couldn't help attending to him myself.
The girl's fiance resembled her physically. I could see them as two miniatures hanging side by side on white wood panels. He should have been a young officer in Nelson's navy in the days when a certain weakness and sensitivity were no bar to promotion.
196
She said, "They are giving me an advance of five hundred pounds, and they've sold the paperback rights already." The hard commercial declaration came as a shock to me; it was a shock too that she was one of my own profession. She couldn't have been more than twenty. She deserved better of life.
He said, "But my uncle ..."
"You know you don't get on with him. This way we shall be quite independent."
"You will be independent," he said grudgingly.
"The wine-trade wouldn't really suit you, would it? I spoke to my publisher about you and there's a very good chance ... if you began with some reading ..."
"But I don't know a thing about books."
"I would help you at the start."
"My mother says that writing is a good crutch ..."
"Five hundred pounds and half the paperback rights is a pretty solid crutch," she said.
"This Chablis is good, isn't it?"
"I dare say."
I began to change my opinion of him — he had not the Nelson touch. He was doomed to defeat. She came alongside and raked him fore and aft. "Do know what Mr. Dwight said?"
"Who's Dwight?"
"Darling, you don't listen, do you? My publisher. He said he hadn't read a first novel in the last ten years which showed such powers of observation."
"That's wonderful," he said sadly, "wonderful."
"Only he wants me to change the title,"
"Yes?'
"He doesn't like The Ever-Rolling Stream. He wants to call it The Chelsea Set."
"What did you say?"
"I agreed. Г do think that with a first novel one should try to keep one's publisher happy. Especially when, really, he's going to pay for our marriage, isn't he?"
"I see what you mean." Absent-mindedly he stirred his Chablis with a fork — perhaps before the engagement he had always bought champagne. The Japanese gentlemen had finished their fish and with very little English but elaborate courtesy they were ordering from the middle-aged waitress a fresh fruit salad. The girl looked at them, and then she looked at me, but I think she saw only the future. 1 wanted very much to warn her against any future based on a first novel called The Chelsea Set. I was on the side of his mother. It was a humiliating thought, but I was probably about her mother's age.
Ramadan is a time for Muslims to fast for the sake of God and to offer more prayer than usual. During Ramadan, Muslims ask forgiveness for past sins, pray for guidance and help in refraining from everyday evils, and try to purify themselves through self-restraint and good deeds.
I was too young to be other than awed and puzzled by Doc Marlowe when I knew him. I was only sixteen when he died. He was sixty-seven. There was that vast difference in our ages and there was a vaster difference in our backgrounds. Doc Marlowe was a medicine-show man. He had been a lot of other things, too: a circus man, the proprietor of a concession at Coney Island, a saloon-keeper; but in his fifties he had travelled around with a tent-show troupe made up of a Mexican named Chickalilli, who threw knives, and a man called Professor Jones, who played the banjo. Doc Marlowe would come out after the entertainment and harangue the crowd and sell bottles of medicine for all kinds of ailments. I found out all this about him gradually, toward the last, and after he died. When I first knew him, he represented the Wild West to me, and there was nobody I admired so much.
I met Doc Marlowe at old Mrs. Willoughby's rooming-house. She had been a nurse in our family, and I used to go and visit her over week-ends sometimes, for I was very fond of her. I was about eleven years old then. Doc Marlowe wore scarred leather leggings, a bright-coloured bead vest that he said he got from the Indians, and a ten-gallon hat with kitchen matches stuck in the band, all the way round. He was about six feet four inches tall, with big shoulders, and a long, drooping moustache. He let his hair grow long, like General Custer's. He had a wonderful
As compared to the solar calendar, the dates of Ramadan vary, moving backwards about ten days each year as it is a moving holiday depending on the moon. Ramadan was the month in which the first verses of the Qur’an were said to be revealed to the Islamic Prophet Muhammad. That was during a night that Muslims call Laylat al-Qadr (the night of decree.) The night is believed to be one of the 10 last days of the month.
I am a painter. I like painting more than anything else, except obvious things like food and drink, that all sensible people like. As a painter, I have quite a lot of talent — I'm not sure yet how much — and a fairly complete mastery of most of the technical requirements; that is, I am an instinctive colourist, and my composition is interesting.
I have my difficulties, but who does not? I get on fairly well with people, and I ought to be quite as successful as a dozen other painters — but I am not. I never have been since my very first one-man show, when I was discovered by the critics, taken up — and very quickly put down again — and sold out.
"Sold out" is the just phrase. I was twenty-two after that show. Apart from quite a lot of money, the way I understand it, I had one oil painting left, three drawings, and very little common sense, my most valuable remaining possession. The common sense prevented me from believing what the critics said and considering myself a genius, and not only a genius but a painter who would always be able to live by painting exactly what he wanted to paint when he wanted to paint it.
Ramadan ends with Eid ul-Fitr on the first of Shawwal, with much celebration and feasting.
Mickey’s popularity has grown around the world. This was due to his angelic nature. Mickey never does anything immoral. However, in 2009 the Walt Disney Company announced that they will begin to re-brand the Mickey Mouse character by moving away from his pleasant, cheerful image and reintroducing the more devious side of his personality, starting with the upcoming Epic Mickey, a Mickey Mouse video game. The Walt Disney Company thus intends to show the mischievous side of Mickey’s personality.
Among the great variety of local, private, non-commercial radio stations in America, there exists the National Public Radio Network (NPR). It is an association of public
Once a rich Englishwoman called Mrs Johnson decided to have a birthday party. She invited a lot of guests and a singer. The singer was poor, but he had a very good voice.
The singer got to Mrs Johnson's house at exactly six o'clock as he had been asked to do, but when he went in, he saw through a door that the dining-room was already full of guests, who were sitting round a big table in the middle of the room. The guests were eating, joking, laughing, and talking loudly. Mrs Johnson came out to him, and he thought she was going to ask him to join them, when she said, "We're glad, sir, that you have come. You will be singing after dinner, I'll call you as soon as we're ready to listen to you. Now will you go into the kitchen and have dinner, too, please?"
The singer was very angry, but said nothing. At first he wanted to leave Mrs Johnson's house at once, but then he changed his mind and decided to stay and teach her and her rich guests a good lesson. When the singer went into the kitchen, the servants were having dinner, too. He joined them. After dinner, the singer thanked everybody and said, "Well, now I'm going to sing to you, my good friends." And he sang them some beautiful songs.
Soon Mrs Johnson called the singer.
"Well, sir, we're ready."
"Ready?" asked the singer. "What are you ready for?"
"To listen to you," said Mrs Johnson in an angry voice.
"Listen to me? But I have already sung, and I'm afraid I shan't be able to sing any more tonight."
"Where did you sing?"
"In the kitchen. I always sing for those I have dinner with."
 radio stations. NPR is known for its quality news and discussion pro-rams. Another public radio network, American Public Radio (APR) created a commentary and entertainment program for all ages called The Prairie Home Companion. The largest television networks are CBS, NBC ABC, CNN, ESPN (the all-sports cable network), MTV and PBS. The level of quality, whether in national and international news, entertainment, or education that these networks offer is excellent. Children and parents in many parts of the USA and even the world are familiar with Sesame Street, The Muppet Show or Reading